---
title: "DSI Project 2 - AMES Housing"
date: 2019-10-10
tags: [data science,regression model,beginner]
header:
  image: "/images/house.jpg"
excerpt: "data science,regression model,beginner, lasso, ridge"
mathjax: "true"
---

# Project Title: Build a model that predicts the price of a house at sale in Ames, Iowa before a sale.

Part of my DSI project assigment.

## Datasets

1. Kaggle Dataset @ [link](https://www.kaggle.com/c/house-prices-advanced-regression-techniques) 

## Problems with the dataset

+ Missing values caused by NA and null. - filled with various methods.
+ Mislabeling of types. 
+ Ordinal rank some of the categories.
+ Presence of outliers - Drop 2 big houses with >4000 sq ft. 

## Models used (in the Github link)

- Single Linear Regression
- Multiple Linear Regression
- Lasso Regression
- Ridge Regression
- Elastic Net

**Despite some of the other models offering better predictive powers, the MLR was selected because of it is easy to simple to understand and to explain to other stakeholders such as realtors or house owners that might have an interest in this problem. It is not easy to explain a model with 30 predictors.**

## Limitation of the model built

- will need to modify the age calculation used (2010 - year of remod)
- unable to accurately predict large houses
- houses with unique characteristics such as missing sewage, no central aircon etc as there are not 
enough samples to predict accurartely
- like many models, this is not an evergreen model..

## Lessons from this project

There are 2 notebooks inside my Github repo. Reason for having 2 notebook is initially when I first joined the GA course, like many people I was hoping that Data Science and Machine Learning could provide the magic bullet for solving all my data problems.
In book 1, I did not do much of a feature engineering and bruteforced my way into having 62 columns or features to predict price. In the end, many of the columns are correlated and the model did not work well.
In book 2, I did feature engineering and correlation studies and removed highly correlated columns. In the end, i chose a MLR model in the house price prediction model as it was more explainable vs the other models which was ~6% more accurary in terms of RMSE but had 30 predictors.

**Enclosed: [Presentation slide](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1nMlMeiMZm3elYOPNuePGzQfW1mbBmZzrsufwjhgZPCU/edit?usp=sharing)**

**[Github code](https://github.com/andrewgohcl/DSI-ACT-SAT-DataViz)**
