---
title: "DSI Project 3 - Utilising Web APIs and Classification on two sub reddits"
date: 2019-10-24
tags: [data science,web-scrapping,nlp,logistic regression]
header:
  image: "/images/house.jpg"
excerpt: "data science,web-scrapping,nlp,logistic regression"
mathjax: "true"
---

# Project Title: Horror or Murder?

Finding it hard to find volunteer moderators for your forums to enforce rules? Worried about these volunteer moderators becoming inactive and them holding onto admin access? Worried about too much clutter/spam building up into your forums that people would view your forum with lower regard?

**Fret not**

We propose the research,building and implementation of a NLP classifier model. The model here however would not be a multi-class classification model but rather a binary classification model. The goal of the project is to be a proof of concept that machine-learning classifier systems could work for forums. If the proof of concept model could work, management can reconsider allocating more budget to build a more enhanced deployment model for multiclass classification.

Based on our research, building and testing of models, we were able to utilise a countvectorizer and logistic regression to predict from which subreddit (r/nosleep or r/UnsolvedMysteries) a post is from with up to a accuracy of 99.39%. We would need more resources and time to research and test the feasibility to deploy it on a whole forum basis.

## Datasets

1. Web-scraped from Reddit r/nosleep & r/UnsolvedMysteries

## Problems with the dataset

+ Missing values caused by null. - filled with various methods.
+ Duplicated post.
+ HTML tags in post

## Models used (in the Github link)

**Naive Bayes**

**A. CountVectorizer method**
1. An instance of `CountVectorizer`
2. A Naive Bayes `MultinomialNB` instance

**B.TF-IDF Vectorizer method**
1. An instance of `TfidfVectorizer`
2. A Naive Bayes `MultinomialNB` instance

**Logistic Regression**

**C. CountVectorizer method**
1. An instance of `CountVectorizer`
2. A `LogisticRegression` instance

**D.TF-IDF Vectorizer method**
1. An instance of `TfidfVectorizer`
2. A `LogisticRegression` instance

## Additional

After the first iteration, the high score maybe due to the model recognizing "links" in the post. In the data cleaning process, html tags such as `&nbsp;` and some others were removed but links containing 'http://' & '.com' word were not as they are required in unresolved mysteries as post need to contain links to prove that it was a factual case and not a made up one.
I re-ran my model and dropped all the website related links such as http, www, .com etc and model score remained stable.

**Enclosed: [Presentation slide](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/15-qbpe6cQMuyVhDK5ltN0lhqDhztQS-VbQ9jYwLboTk/edit?usp=sharing)**

**[Github code](https://github.com/andrewgohcl/DSI-Project3-Reddit)**

